Jakub Marczynski
Poland | jakubmarczynski509@gmail.com | linkedin.com/in/jakub926
Skills
Languages & Frameworks: C#, .NET, Java, Spring Boot, Kotlin, Groovy, Python, FastAPI, Django, Node.js, Go, Angular,
React/Next.js, Vue
Database: MS SQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, MongoDB, Cassandra, Elasticsearch, Redis
Cloud: Azure, AWS, GCP
Technologies & Tools: Maven, Gradle, Kafka, RabbitMQ, Docker, Kubernetes, Terraform, Ansible, Jenkins, Git, Github Actions,
Gitlab CI/CD, Azure Pipelines, Postman, gRPC, OpenAPI, Swagger, Jira, Agile, Scrum, GraphQL
Experience
Senior Backend Engineer, Team Lead, Zalando October 2018 – June 2025
● Engineered and Supported 5+ backend systems, RESTful APIs and microservices using C#, Java, Node.js and Go with
leveraging SQL and NoSQL databases.
● Architected and deployed high-capacity payment system, leveraging C#, .NET, Kafka, and Redis, successfully handling over 1
million transactions on day one.
● Redesigned the pricing service for payments using TypeScript, Angular, GraphQL, .NET, and Azure.
● Built a cloud-based solution using Azure services that resulted in a 30% reduction in infrastructure costs and a 20% increase
in system reliability.
● Established efficient CI/CD pipelines using Docker, Kubernetes, Jenkins, Terraform, Ansible and Github Actions, and utilized
Azure AKS for seamless cloud-based containerization.
● Worked closely with cross-functional teams to define API and webhook schemas and integrate third-party services.
● Conducted onboarding and training for 10+ developers, focusing on secure payment processing and clean coding techniques,
resulting in enhanced code quality and security compliance.
Senior Backend Developer, Accenture March 2017 – August 2018
● Developed and maintained the .NET backend in microservice architecture to support new product lines.
● Formulated robust authentication and permission management systems, strengthening security and access control in the
application.
● Integrated third-party APIs and Azure Services into the applications, and also integrated with Microservices as well as the
Machine Learning models into the applications using Azure Functions.
● Administered an error handling, logging, and tracking system utilizing Azure Monitor, Functions, Service Bus, and Datadog for
monitoring and troubleshooting.
● Launched a utility tool to verify user distribution accuracy for AB testing, applying complex distribution rules with ABAC
integration, resulting in more reliable test outcomes and a 15% increase in conversion rate.
Backend Developer, Butterfly Network, Inc. June 2015 – February 2017
● Solved various internal tools and services including financial reporting, budgeting, and forecasting using C#, .NET and
Angular.
● Implemented back-end logic with Java using technologies including Collection Framework, Multi-Threading.
● Designed and implemented low-latency, high-availability, and performant applications.
● Created a single page application using HTML5, JavaScript/TypeScript, Angular and customized the web features by CSS3 and
Bootstrap.
Education
Texas Tech University – Bachelor’s Degree, Computer Science September 2011 – May 2015